README.md, before:

# node-typescript-boilerplate

[![Sponsor][sponsor-badge]][sponsor]
[![TypeScript version][ts-badge]][typescript-5-7]
[![Node.js version][nodejs-badge]][nodejs]
[![APLv2][license-badge]][license]
[![Build Status - GitHub Actions][gha-badge]][gha-ci]

👩🏻‍💻 Developer Ready: A comprehensive template. Works out of the box for most [Node.js][nodejs] projects.

🏃🏽 Instant Value: All basic tools included and configured:

- [TypeScript][typescript] [5.7][typescript-5-7]
- [ESM][esm]
- [ESLint][eslint] with some initial rules recommendation
- [Vitest][vitest] for fast unit testing and code coverage
- Type definitions for Node.js
- [Prettier][prettier] to enforce consistent code style
- NPM [scripts](#available-scripts) for common operations
- [EditorConfig][editorconfig] for consistent coding style
- Reproducible environments thanks to [Volta][volta]
- Example configuration for [GitHub Actions][gh-actions]
- Simple example of TypeScript code and unit test

🤲 Free as in speech: available under the APLv2 license.

## Getting Started

This project is intended to be used with the latest Active LTS release of [Node.js][nodejs].

### Use as a repository template

To start, just click the **[Use template][repo-template-action]** link (or the green button). Start adding your code in the `src` and unit tests in the `__tests__` directories.

### Clone repository

To clone the repository, use the following commands:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/jsynowiec/node-typescript-boilerplate
cd node-typescript-boilerplate
npm install
```

### Download latest release

Download and unzip the current **main** branch or one of the tags:

```sh
wget https://github.com/jsynowiec/node-typescript-boilerplate/archive/main.zip -O node-typescript-boilerplate.zip
unzip node-typescript-boilerplate.zip && rm node-typescript-boilerplate.zip
```

## Available Scripts

- `clean` - remove coverage data, cache and transpiled files,
- `prebuild` - lint source files and tests before building,
- `build` - transpile TypeScript to ES6,
- `build:watch` - interactive watch mode to automatically transpile source files,
- `lint` - lint source files and tests,
- `prettier` - reformat files,
- `test` - run tests,
- `test:watch` - interactive watch mode to automatically re-run tests
- `test:coverage` - run test and print out test coverage

## Additional Information

### Why include Volta

I recommend to [install][volta-getting-started] Volta and use it to manage your project's toolchain.

[Volta][volta]’s toolchain always keeps track of where you are, it makes sure the tools you use always respect the settings of the project you’re working on. This means you don’t have to worry about changing the state of your installed software when switching between projects. For example, it's [used by engineers at LinkedIn][volta-tomdale] to standardize tools and have reproducible development environments.

### Why Vitest instead of Jest

I recommend using [Vitest][vitest] for unit and integration testing of your TypeScript code.

In 2023, my team and I gradually switched from Jest to [Vitest][vitest] in all the projects. We've found out that generally, Vitest is faster than Jest, especially for large test suits. Furthermore, Vitest has native support for ES modules, is easier to configure, and has a much nicer developer experience when used with TypeScript. For example, when working with mocks, spies and types.

Nevertheless, the choice of specific tooling always depends on the specific requirements and characteristics of the project.

### ES Modules

This template uses native [ESM][esm]. Make sure to read [this][nodejs-esm], and [this][ts47-esm] first.

If your project requires CommonJS, you will have to [convert to ESM][sindresorhus-esm].

Please do not open issues for questions regarding CommonJS or ESM on this repo.

## Backers & Sponsors

Support this project by becoming a [sponsor][sponsor].

## License

Licensed under the APLv2. See the [LICENSE](https://github.com/jsynowiec/node-typescript-boilerplate/blob/main/LICENSE) file for details.

[ts-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5.7-blue.svg
[nodejs-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-22-blue.svg
[nodejs]: https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v22.x/docs/api/
[gha-badge]: https://github.com/jsynowiec/node-typescript-boilerplate/actions/workflows/nodejs.yml/badge.svg
[gha-ci]: https://github.com/jsynowiec/node-typescript-boilerplate/actions/workflows/nodejs.yml
[typescript]: https://www.typescriptlang.org/
[typescript-5-7]: https://devblogs.microsoft.com/typescript/announcing-typescript-5-7/
[license-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-APLv2-blue.svg
[license]: https://github.com/jsynowiec/node-typescript-boilerplate/blob/main/LICENSE
[sponsor-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/♥-Sponsor-fc0fb5.svg
[sponsor]: https://github.com/sponsors/jsynowiec
[eslint]: https://github.com/eslint/eslint
[prettier]: https://prettier.io
[volta]: https://volta.sh
[volta-getting-started]: https://docs.volta.sh/guide/getting-started
[volta-tomdale]: https://twitter.com/tomdale/status/1162017336699838467
[gh-actions]: https://github.com/features/actions
[repo-template-action]: https://github.com/jsynowiec/node-typescript-boilerplate/generate
[esm]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules
[sindresorhus-esm]: https://gist.github.com/sindresorhus/a39789f98801d908bbc7ff3ecc99d99c
[nodejs-esm]: https://nodejs.org/docs/latest-v16.x/api/esm.html
[ts47-esm]: https://devblogs.microsoft.com/typescript/announcing-typescript-4-7/#esm-nodejs
[editorconfig]: https://editorconfig.org
[vitest]: https://vitest.dev

Commit message:

feat: add ai testing features documentation
details out 10 new ai capability tests including text generation, vision,
audio processing, and speech features along with instructions for running the
interactive test suite via npm start

README.md, after:

# node-typescript-boilerplate

[![Sponsor][sponsor-badge]][sponsor]
[![TypeScript version][ts-badge]][typescript-5-7]
[![Node.js version][nodejs-badge]][nodejs]
[![APLv2][license-badge]][license]
[![Build Status - GitHub Actions][gha-badge]][gha-ci]

👩🏻‍💻 Developer Ready: A comprehensive template. Works out of the box for most [Node.js][nodejs] projects.

🏃🏽 Instant Value: All basic tools included and configured:

- [TypeScript][typescript] [5.7][typescript-5-7]
- [ESM][esm]
- [ESLint][eslint] with some initial rules recommendation
- [Vitest][vitest] for fast unit testing and code coverage
- Type definitions for Node.js
- [Prettier][prettier] to enforce consistent code style
- NPM [scripts](#available-scripts) for common operations
- [EditorConfig][editorconfig] for consistent coding style
- Reproducible environments thanks to [Volta][volta]
- Example configuration for [GitHub Actions][gh-actions]
- Simple example of TypeScript code and unit test

🤲 Free as in speech: available under the APLv2 license.

## Getting Started

This project is intended to be used with the latest Active LTS release of [Node.js][nodejs].

### Use as a repository template

To start, just click the **[Use template][repo-template-action]** link (or the green button). Start adding your code in the `src` and unit tests in the `__tests__` directories.

### Clone repository

To clone the repository, use the following commands:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/jsynowiec/node-typescript-boilerplate
cd node-typescript-boilerplate
npm install
```

### Download latest release

Download and unzip the current **main** branch or one of the tags:

```sh
wget https://github.com/jsynowiec/node-typescript-boilerplate/archive/main.zip -O node-typescript-boilerplate.zip
unzip node-typescript-boilerplate.zip && rm node-typescript-boilerplate.zip
```

## Available Scripts

- `clean` - remove coverage data, cache and transpiled files,
- `prebuild` - lint source files and tests before building,
- `build` - transpile TypeScript to ES6,
- `build:watch` - interactive watch mode to automatically transpile source files,
- `lint` - lint source files and tests,
- `prettier` - reformat files,
- `test` - run tests,
- `test:watch` - interactive watch mode to automatically re-run tests
- `test:coverage` - run test and print out test coverage

## AI Testing Features

This project includes an interactive test runner for various AI capabilities:

1. **Text Generation** - Test text generation capabilities
2. **Vision** - Test vision analysis with URLs
3. **Vision with Local Image** - Test vision analysis with local images
4. **Image Generation** - Test AI image generation
5. **Image Edit** - Test AI image editing capabilities
6. **Image Variation** - Test AI image variation generation
7. **Audio** - Test audio processing
8. **Audio In/Out** - Test audio input/output processing
9. **Text to Speech** - Test text-to-speech conversion
10. **Speech to Text** - Test speech-to-text conversion

To run the tests, use:

```sh
npm start
```

This will launch an interactive prompt where you can select which AI feature to test.

## Additional Information

### Why include Volta

I recommend to [install][volta-getting-started] Volta and use it to manage your project's toolchain.

[Volta][volta]’s toolchain always keeps track of where you are, it makes sure the tools you use always respect the settings of the project you’re working on. This means you don’t have to worry about changing the state of your installed software when switching between projects. For example, it's [used by engineers at LinkedIn][volta-tomdale] to standardize tools and have reproducible development environments.

### Why Vitest instead of Jest

I recommend using [Vitest][vitest] for unit and integration testing of your TypeScript code.

In 2023, my team and I gradually switched from Jest to [Vitest][vitest] in all the projects. We've found out that generally, Vitest is faster than Jest, especially for large test suits. Furthermore, Vitest has native support for ES modules, is easier to configure, and has a much nicer developer experience when used with TypeScript. For example, when working with mocks, spies and types.

Nevertheless, the choice of specific tooling always depends on the specific requirements and characteristics of the project.

### ES Modules

This template uses native [ESM][esm]. Make sure to read [this][nodejs-esm], and [this][ts47-esm] first.

If your project requires CommonJS, you will have to [convert to ESM][sindresorhus-esm].

Please do not open issues for questions regarding CommonJS or ESM on this repo.

## Backers & Sponsors

Support this project by becoming a [sponsor][sponsor].

## License

Licensed under the APLv2. See the [LICENSE](https://github.com/jsynowiec/node-typescript-boilerplate/blob/main/LICENSE) file for details.

[ts-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5.7-blue.svg
[nodejs-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-22-blue.svg
[nodejs]: https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v22.x/docs/api/
[gha-badge]: https://github.com/jsynowiec/node-typescript-boilerplate/actions/workflows/nodejs.yml/badge.svg
[gha-ci]: https://github.com/jsynowiec/node-typescript-boilerplate/actions/workflows/nodejs.yml
[typescript]: https://www.typescriptlang.org/
[typescript-5-7]: https://devblogs.microsoft.com/typescript/announcing-typescript-5-7/
[license-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-APLv2-blue.svg
[license]: https://github.com/jsynowiec/node-typescript-boilerplate/blob/main/LICENSE
[sponsor-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/♥-Sponsor-fc0fb5.svg
[sponsor]: https://github.com/sponsors/jsynowiec
[eslint]: https://github.com/eslint/eslint
[prettier]: https://prettier.io
[volta]: https://volta.sh
[volta-getting-started]: https://docs.volta.sh/guide/getting-started
[volta-tomdale]: https://twitter.com/tomdale/status/1162017336699838467
[gh-actions]: https://github.com/features/actions
[repo-template-action]: https://github.com/jsynowiec/node-typescript-boilerplate/generate
[esm]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules
[sindresorhus-esm]: https://gist.github.com/sindresorhus/a39789f98801d908bbc7ff3ecc99d99c
[nodejs-esm]: https://nodejs.org/docs/latest-v16.x/api/esm.html
[ts47-esm]: https://devblogs.microsoft.com/typescript/announcing-typescript-4-7/#esm-nodejs
[editorconfig]: https://editorconfig.org
[vitest]: https://vitest.dev
